New custom method instrumentation guide (#5346)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/guide/instrument_custom_method.md

---
title: Instrument a custom method to get deep visibility into your business logic
kind: guide
disable_toc: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/guide/alert_anomalies_p99_database/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Alert on anomalous p99 latency of a database service"
- link: "tracing/guide/week_over_week_p50_comparison/"
  tag: "2 mins"
  text: "Compare a service’s latency to the previous week"
- link: "/tracing/guide/slowest_request_daily/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Debug the slowest trace on the slowest endpoint of a web service"
- link: "tracing/guide/"
  tag: ""
  text: "All guides"
---
_8 minutes to complete_

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_1.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

In order to provide you deep visibility into your business logic, Datadog APM allows you to customize the spans that make up your traces based on your needs and implementation. This empowers you to trace any method in your codebase and even specific components within methods. You can use this to optimize and monitor critical areas of your application at the granularity that works for you.

> Datadog instruments many frameworks out-of-the-box such as web services, databases and caches and it enables you to instrument your own business logic to have the exact visibility you need. By creating spans for the pmethods, you can optimize timing and track errors using the APM flamegraph and Datadog monitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog instruments many frameworks out-of-the-box such as web services, databases and caches and it enables you to instrument your own business logic to have the exact visibility you need. By creating spans for the methods, you can optimize timing and track errors using the APM flamegraph and Datadog monitors.
```

## Instrument a complete method with decorators

**Follow the example to get your code instrumented**.

These examples walk through tracing the entire `BackupLedger.write` method to measure it's execution time and status. `BackupLedger.write` is an action that saves the current state of our transaction ledger in memory before making a call to our payments database to post a new customer charge. This happens when the `charge` endpoint of our payments service is hit:

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_2.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Note that the `http.request POST /charge/` span is taking a lot of time without having any direct child spans. This is a clue that this request requires further instrumentation to gain better insights into its behavior. Depending on the programming language you are using, you need to decorate your functions differently:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}

```java
TBD - Java
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}

```python

> TBD - Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ledger = dict()
        
    # Use `ddtrace.tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @ddtrace.tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction
```

Reviewer 2: Did a small change:
```python
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ledger = dict()
        
    # Use `tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction

        # [...]
```

```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Ruby" %}}

```ruby
TBD - Ruby
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Go" %}}

```go
TBD - Go
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}

```javascript
TBD - js
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}

```csharp
TBD - C#
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "PHP" %}}

```php
TBD - PHP
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Instrument individual components of your methods for better visibility into their performance

**Follow the example to get your code instrumented**.

In this example walks through adding child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above. This method adds a row to the transaction ledger, saves the entire ledger in memory, and then notifies the service that the ledger is saved. This examples adds spans to track each of the three actions.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}

```java
TBD - Java
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}

```python

> TBD - Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ledger = dict()
        
    # Use `ddtrace.tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @ddtrace.tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            # Use `ddtrace.tracer.trace` context manager to trace blocks of inline code
            with ddtrace.trace.trace('persist_transaction') as span:
                # Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
                span.set_tag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
                self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction
```

Reviewer 2: Change to reflect previous update:
```python
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ledger = dict()
        
    # Use `tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            # Use `tracer.trace` context manager to trace blocks of inline code
            with tracer.trace('persist_transaction') as span:
                # Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
                span.set_tag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
                self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction

        # [...]
```

---
title: Instrument a custom method to get deep visibility into your business logic
kind: guide
disable_toc: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/guide/alert_anomalies_p99_database/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Alert on anomalous p99 latency of a database service"
- link: "tracing/guide/week_over_week_p50_comparison/"
  tag: "2 mins"
  text: "Compare a service’s latency to the previous week"
- link: "/tracing/guide/slowest_request_daily/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Debug the slowest trace on the slowest endpoint of a web service"
- link: "tracing/guide/"
  tag: ""
  text: "All guides"
---
_8 minutes to complete_

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_1.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

In order to provide you deep visibility into your business logic, Datadog APM allows you to customize the spans that make up your traces based on your needs and implementation. This empowers you to trace any method in your codebase and even specific components within methods. You can use this to optimize and monitor critical areas of your application at the granularity that works for you.

> Custom spans are useful when you have methods that perform multiple actions like fetching data from a payments database, sanitizing, processing and verifying the response, and finally returning the results to a customer.

Reviewer 2: This may be a bit confusing. If I read that quickly, it seems that you need to add custom spans for "fetching data from a payments database, sanitizing, processing and verifying the response, and finally returning the results to a customer" that is actually what we instrument already out of the box.

It's described better in the next block where it's important to define that while the processing is a custom business logic and it's already traced, it doesn't have a granularity you want and so why you need custom instrumentation. I think you can just merge saying "we auto-instrument x and y, but for z you can use custom spans to increase the visibility".

Author: See next

The database call and sanitization methods are already instrumented automatically, but the processing is entirely tailored to your application. By creating spans for the processing, you can optimize the timing using the APM flamegraph and monitor for errors using Datadog monitors.

> **Note**: When using any framework that is integrated with Datadog APM, your web requests, database queries, and cache jobs are automatically traced.

Reviewer 2: I think if we have to put that "Note", maybe it's because we're not clear in the previous section? I think this may not be a "Note", but actually how we start the section. Auto-instrumentation is very important and is one of the best values of Datadog APM. Custom instrumentation is advanced usage that may be needed in some circumstances (that you're describing in this guide).

Author: I reread the whole intro and think you're right. The note is actually a key thing here. I rewrote this focusing on that and leaving the example for the next block!

## Instrument a complete method with decorators

**Follow the example to get your code instrumented**.

> This examples walks through tracing the entire `BackupLedger.write` method to measure it's execution time and status. `BackupLedger.write` is an action that saves the current state of our transaction ledger in memory before making a call to our payments database to post a new customer charge. This happens when the `charge` endpoint of our payments service is hit:

Reviewer 2: Maybe?
```suggestion
These examples walks through tracing the entire `BackupLedger.write` method to measure it's execution time and status. `BackupLedger.write` is an action that saves the current state of our transaction ledger in memory before making a call to our payments database to post a new customer charge. This happens when the `charge` endpoint of our payments service is hit:
```

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_2.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

> Note that the `http.request POST /charge/` span is taking a lot of time without having any direct child spans. This is a clue that this request requires further instrumentation to gain better insights into its behavior. Depending on the programming language you are using, you need to decorate your functions differently:

Reviewer 2: @omris1 as a side note, we may want to use another part of the application.

Author: How about instead, we change the legend in in photoshop?

Reviewer 2: Let's use our real `shop.ist` app. In case we'll change our code representation there.

> Spans are the building blocks of APM Traces. You can instrument entire methods in your code. Follow the code sample below to create a new span that traces your method and includes it within your traces.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick.

> Spans are the building blocks of APM Traces

I think this is more a "glossary" sentence. Maybe a general approach we can use is to limit the number of concepts we describe? I'd like to be sure the API is so clear that doesn't need to be explained. In general "I change my code" -> "This is a new thing you see in the UI" should be more easy to explain.

What if we just say something similar to: "Follow the code sample below to enrich your traces and have visibility on your business logic".

Author: Good call, this guide kind of already assumes a user knows what a span is. Removed.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}

```java
TBD - Java
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}

```python
TBD - Python
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Ruby" %}}

```ruby
TBD - Ruby
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Go" %}}

```go
TBD - Go
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}

```javascript
TBD - js
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}

```csharp
TBD - C#
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "PHP" %}}

```php
TBD - PHP
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Instrument individual componenets of your methods to control the precision of your spans

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Instrument individual components of your methods to control the precision of your spans
```

> ## Instrument individual componenets of your methods to control the precision of your spans

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the title is really clear with "to control the precision of your spans". I think we should put as a title something that is not about "controlling the precision" but more about "have a breakdown of a custom instrumented span" (with more instrumentation). If it makes sense, can't we define this as an extra breakdown of a span?

Author: Updated!

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}

```javascript
TBD - js
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}

```csharp
TBD - C#
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "PHP" %}}

```php
TBD - PHP
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Leverage the Datadog UI to see your new custom spans

Now that you have instrumented your business logic, it's time to see the results in the Datadog APM UI.

1. **Go to the [Service List][1]**, identify the service you added custom spans to and **go to the Service Page**, from there, **click on the specific resource** you worked on. Change the time filter to `The past 15 minutes` and scroll down to the Span Summary table:

    {{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_3.png" alt="Span Summary Table" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

    *You should now be able to find the new spans you've added*

    The Span Summary table is a great way to have an at-a-glance view of aggregate information about the spans that make up your traces. Here you can identify spans that repeat an abnormal amount of times indicating some looping or database access inefficiency (like the `n+1` issue).

2. **Scroll down to the Traces list** and click into one of the traces you see there.

>     {{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_4.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer 2: I think we should zoom the image a bit, in a way that operation names are visible (the ones we'll define in the code snippets).

Author: @palazzem Ok, I'll have to photoshop those in, so can you let me know what those will be and we'll do that when the guide is ready?

> You've now successfully added custom spans to your codebase. This is the first step towards taking full advantage of Datadog's tools. You can now [add custom tags to your spans][2] to make them even more powerful.

Reviewer 2: Should we add any reference about leveraging the search functionality on these newly created spans?

Author: Added!

---
title: Instrument a custom method to get deep visibility into your business logic
kind: guide
disable_toc: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/guide/alert_anomalies_p99_database/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Alert on anomalous p99 latency of a database service"
- link: "tracing/guide/week_over_week_p50_comparison/"
  tag: "2 mins"
  text: "Compare a service’s latency to the previous week"
- link: "/tracing/guide/slowest_request_daily/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Debug the slowest trace on the slowest endpoint of a web service"
- link: "tracing/guide/"
  tag: ""
  text: "All guides"
---

> _8 minutes to complete_

Reviewer 3: I was always fooled to believe that this was something computed by a JavaScript algorithm and not written by human hand 😆

- link: "tracing/guide/week_over_week_p50_comparison/"
  tag: "2 mins"
  text: "Compare a service’s latency to the previous week"
- link: "/tracing/guide/slowest_request_daily/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Debug the slowest trace on the slowest endpoint of a web service"
- link: "tracing/guide/"
  tag: ""
  text: "All guides"
---
_8 minutes to complete_

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_1.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

In order to provide you deep visibility into your business logic, Datadog APM allows you to customize the spans that make up your traces based on your needs and implementation. This empowers you to trace any method in your codebase and even specific components within methods. You can use this to optimize and monitor critical areas of your application at the granularity that works for you.

Datadog instruments many frameworks out-of-the-box such as web services, databases and caches and it enables you to instrument your own business logic to have the exact visibility you need. By creating spans for the methods, you can optimize timing and track errors using the APM flamegraph and Datadog monitors.

> ## Instrument a complete method with decorators

Reviewer 4: For languages without decorator support, this part of the document is not very clear to follow.

Given the next section, `Instrument individual components of your methods for better visibility into their performance`, reads "this example walks through adding child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above.", we need to provide a "decorator" example for all languages.

In my case, Ruby does not support decorators, so I provided an example on how to instrument the `BackupLedger.write` as a whole in this section. With that, the next section reads correctly.

Maybe we could reword this section to be `Instrument a complete method` instead, without assuming the presence of decorators, and only mention decorators on languages that support it.

Author: I completely redid these, wondering what you think of the new version?

  tag: "2 mins"
  text: "Compare a service’s latency to the previous week"
- link: "/tracing/guide/slowest_request_daily/"
  tag: "3 mins"
  text: "Debug the slowest trace on the slowest endpoint of a web service"
- link: "tracing/guide/"
  tag: ""
  text: "All guides"
---
_8 minutes to complete_

{{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_1.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

To provide you with deep visibility into your business logic, Datadog APM allows you to customize the spans that make up your traces based on your needs and implementation. This empowers you to trace any method in your codebase and even specific components within methods. You can use this to optimize and monitor critical areas of your application at the granularity that works for you.

Datadog instruments many frameworks out-of-the-box such as web services, databases, and caches and enables you to instrument your own business logic to have the exact visibility you need. By creating spans for methods, you can optimize timing and track errors using the APM flame graph and monitors.

## Instrumenting your code

**Follow the example to get your code instrumented**.

> These examples walk through tracing the entire `BackupLedger.write` method to measure it's execution time and status. `BackupLedger.write` is an action that saves the current state of our transaction ledger in memory before making a call to our payments database to post a new customer charge. This happens when the `charge` endpoint of the payments service is hit:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
These examples walk through tracing the entire `BackupLedger.write` method to measure it's execution time and status. `BackupLedger.write` is an action that saves the current state of a transaction ledger in memory before making a call to a payments database to post a new customer charge. This happens when the `charge` endpoint of the payments service is hit:
```

      Tracer tracer = GlobalTracer.get();
      try (Scope scope = tracer.buildSpan("BackupLedger.persist").startActive(true)) {
        // Add custom metadata to the span
        scope.span().setTag("transaction.id", transaction.getId());
        ledger.put(transaction.getId(), transaction);
      }
    }

    // [...]
  }
}
```
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}
  In Python, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans either by using method decorators or by instrumenting specific code blocks.

### Instument a method with a decorator
  This example walks through adding a span to the `BackupLedger.write` method. This method adds new rows to a transaction ledger. This example adds one span to track all posted transactions as a single unit.

```python
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:

    # Use `tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction

        # [...]
```

### Instrument a specific code block

>   This example walks through adding child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above. This method adds a child span for every every transaction in the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This example adds child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above. This method adds a child span for every transaction in the ledger and a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID.
```

```python
from ddtrace import tracer

class BackupLedger:

    # Use `tracer.wrap` decorator to trace custom methods
    @tracer.wrap()
    def write(self, transactions):
        for transaction in transactions:
            # Use `tracer.trace` context manager to trace blocks of inline code
            with tracer.trace('BackupLedger.persist') as span:
                # Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
                span.set_tag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
                self.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction

        # [...]
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Ruby" %}}
  In Ruby, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans by instrumenting specific code blocks.

>   This example walk through the process of creating a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adding a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  This example creates a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.
```

```ruby
require 'ddtrace'

class BackupLedger

  def write(transactions)
    # Use global `Datadog.tracer.trace` to trace blocks of inline code
    Datadog.tracer.trace('BackupLedger.write') do |method_span|
      transactions.each do |transaction|
        Datadog.tracer.trace('BackupLedger.persist') do |span|
          # Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
          span.set_tag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
          ledger[transaction.id] = transaction
        end
      end
    end

    # [...]
  end
end
```
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Go" %}}
  In Go, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans by instrumenting specific code blocks.

>   This example walk through the process of creating a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adding a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  This example creates a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.
```

```go
package ledger

import "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/ddtrace/tracer"

// [...]

func (bl *BackupLedger) write(ctx context.Context, transactions []*Transaction) (err error) {
  span, ctx := tracer.StartSpanFromContext(ctx, "BackupLedger.write")
  defer func() {
    // inside the defer, err holds its final value after the parent function

>     // returns; if it's non-nil, the span will be marked with it.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    // returns; if it's non-nil, the span is marked with it.
```

  }()

  for _, t := range transactions {
    if err := bl.persistTransaction(ctx, t); err != nil {
      return err
    }
  }
  return nil
}

// persistTransaction is an inner function you may want to Trace. You can use the
// same approach as before because the `ctx` you pass down includes out-of-the-box span

> // references to create a parent/child relationship

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// references to create a parent/child relationships.
```

>     // ctx you pass down includes out-of-the-box Span references to create

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    // ctx you pass down includes out-of-the-box span references to create
```

func (bl *BackupLedger) persistTransaction(ctx context.Context, transaction *Transaction) error {
  id := transaction.ID
  span, _ := tracer.StartSpanFromContext(ctx, "BackupLedger.persist", tracer.Tag("transaction_id", id))
  defer span.Finish()

  if t, ok := bl.transactions[id]; ok {
    return errors.New("duplicate entry")
  }
  bl.transactions[id] = transaction
  return nil
}
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}
  In Node.js, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans by instrumenting specific code blocks.

> This example creates a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.

Reviewer: We probably want to adjust this sentence like for Ruby as well, call out what we are adding a parent span with child spans (which have a tag set).

Author: Done!

```javascript
const tracer = require('dd-trace')

function write (transactions) {
  // Use `tracer.trace` context manager to trace blocks of inline code

>   tracer.trace('BackupLedger.persist', () => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  tracer.trace('BackupLedger.write', () => {
```

>   This example walk through the process of creating a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adding a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This example creates a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.
```

>     for (const transaction of transactions) {

Reviewer: We are missing creating child spans inside the for loop.

```js
for (const transaction of transactions) {
  tracer.trace('BackupLedger.persist', (span) => {
      // Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
      span.setTag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
      this.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction
  })
}
```

Reviewer: cc @rochdev to double check my js.

      // Add custom metadata to the "persist_transaction" span
      span.setTag('transaction.id', transaction.id)
      this.ledger[transaction.id] = transaction
    }
  })

  // [...]
}
```
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}
  In .NET, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans by instrumenting specific code blocks.

>   This example walk through the process of creating a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adding a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This example creates a new span for every transaction posted to the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID to the span.
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

public void Write(List<Transaction> transactions)
{
    // Use global tracer to trace blocks of inline code
    using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("BackupLedger.write"))
    {
        foreach (var transaction in transactions)
        {
            using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("BackupLedger.persist"))
            {
                // Add custom metadata to the span
                scope.Span.SetTag("transaction.id", transaction.Id);
                this.ledger[transaction.Id] = transaction;
            }
        }
    }

    // [...]
}
```
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "PHP" %}}
  In PHP, Datadog APM allows you to instrument your code to generate custom spans either by using method wrappers or by instrumenting specific code blocks.

### Instument a method with a wrapper

>   This example walks through adding a span to the `BackupLedger.write` method. This method adds new rows to a transaction ledger. This example adds one span to track all posted transactions as a single unit by using the `dd_trace()` function.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This example adds a span to the `BackupLedger.write` method, which adds new rows to a transaction ledger. One span is added to track all posted transactions as a single unit by using the `dd_trace()` function.
```

```php
<?php
  class BackupLedger {

    public function write(array $transactions) {
      foreach ($transactions as $transaction) {
        $this->transactions[$transaction->getId()] = $transaction;
      }

      # [...]
    }
  }

  // Use dd_trace() to trace custom methods
  dd_trace('BackupLedger', 'write', function () {
    $tracer = \DDTrace\GlobalTracer::get();
    $scope = $tracer->startActiveSpan('BackupLedger.write');
    dd_trace_forward_call();
    $scope->close();
    return $result;
  });
?>
```

### Instrument a specific code block

>   This example walks through adding child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above. This method adds a child span for every every transaction in the ledger and adds a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This example adds child spans to the `BackupLedger.write` span created above. This method adds a child span for every transaction in the ledger and a [custom tag][1] with the specific transaction ID.
```

```php
<?php
  class BackupLedger {

    public function write(array $transactions) {
      foreach ($transactions as $transaction) {
        // Use global tracer to trace blocks of inline code
        $scope = \DDTrace\GlobalTracer::get()->startActiveSpan('BackupLedger.persist');

        // Add custom metadata to the span
        $scope->getSpan()->setTag('transaction.id', $transaction->getId());
        $this->transactions[$transaction->getId()] = $transaction;

        // Close the span
        $scope->close();
      }

      # [...]
    }
  }

  // Use dd_trace() to trace custom methods
  dd_trace('BackupLedger', 'write', function () {
    $tracer = \DDTrace\GlobalTracer::get();
    $scope = $tracer->startActiveSpan('BackupLedger.write');
    dd_trace_forward_call();
    $scope->close();
    return $result;
  });
?>
```
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/guide/add_span_md_and_graph_it
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Leverage the Datadog UI to see your new custom spans

Now that you have instrumented your business logic, it's time to see the results in the Datadog APM UI.

> 1. **Go to the [Service List][1]**, identify the service you added custom spans to and **go to the Service Page**, from there, **click on the specific resource** you worked on. Change the time filter to `The past 15 minutes` and scroll down to the Span Summary table:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Go to the **[Service List][1]**, identify the service you added custom spans to, then go to the **Service Page**. On the service page, click on the **specific resource** you added, change the time filter to `The past 15 minutes`, and scroll down to the span summary table:
```

    {{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_3.png" alt="Span Summary Table" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

    *You should now be able to find the new spans you've added*

>     The Span Summary table is a great way to have an at-a-glance view of aggregate information about the spans that make up your traces. Here you can identify spans that repeat an abnormal amount of times indicating some looping or database access inefficiency (like the [`n+1` issue][2]).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The span summary table provides aggregate information about the spans that make up your traces. Here you can identify spans that repeat an abnormal amount of times indicating some looping or database access inefficiency (like the [`n+1` issue][2]).
```

> 2. **Scroll down to the Traces list** and click into one of the traces you see there.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
2. Scroll down to the **Traces list** and click into one of the your traces.
```

    {{< img src="tracing/guide/custom_span/custom_span_4.png" alt="Analytics View" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

> You've now successfully added custom spans to your codebase making them available on the Flamegraph and in [Trace Search & Analytics][3]. This is the first step towards taking full advantage of Datadog's tools. You can now [add custom tags to your spans][4] to make them even more powerful.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You've now successfully added custom spans to your codebase making them available on the flame graph and in [Trace Search & Analytics][3]. This is the first step towards taking full advantage of Datadog's tools. You can now [add custom tags to your spans][4] to make them even more powerful.
```
